docs/scalability/innodb_io.md, before:

# Improved InnoDB I/O Scalability

Because InnoDB is a complex storage engine it must be configured properly in order to perform at its best. Some points are not configurable in standard InnoDB. The goal of this feature is to provide a more exhaustive set of options for XtraDB.

## Version Specific Information

* Percona Server for MySQL 5.7.10-1: Feature ported from Percona Server for MySQL 5.6

## System Variables

### `innodb_use_global_flush_log_at_trx_commit`

| Option       | Description |
|--------------|-------------|
| Command-line | Yes         |
| Config File  | Yes         |
| Scope        | Global      |
| Dynamic      | Yes         |
| Data type    | Boolean     |
| Default      | True        |
| Range        | True/False  |

This variable enables or disables the effect of the per-session value of
the innodb_flush_log_at_trx_commit variable.

If the global variable  innodb_use_global_flush_log_at_trx_commit is
set to `1`, the session uses the current
global value of innodb_flush_log_at_trx_commit. This is the
upstream-compatible mode. If the user attempts to change the
innodb_flush_log_at_trx_commit value for a
session, the session value is ignored.

If the global variable innodb_use_global_flush_log_at_trx_commit is set to
`0`, a user can modify the
`innodb_flush_log_at_trx_commit` per-session using the following command:

```sql
SET SESSION innodb_flush_log_at_trx_commit=0
```

This modification only affects the transactions in that session. Other sessions,
if they have not been individually modified, continue to use the
global innodb_use_flush_log_at_trx_commit value.

```sql
SET innodb_use_global_flush_log_at_trx_commit=1
```

### `innodb_flush_method`

| Option         | Description                                                   |
|----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| Command-line   | Yes                                                           |
| Config File    | Yes                                                           |
| Scope          | Global                                                        |
| Dynamic        | No                                                            |
| Data type      | Enumeration                                                   |
| Default        | fdatasync                                                     |
| Allowed values | fdatasync, O_DSYNC, O_DIRECT, O_DIRECT_NO_FSYNC, ALL_O_DIRECT |

The variable was ported from Percona Server for MySQL 5.6 in Percona Server for MySQL 5.7.10-3. This is an existing MySQL 5.7 system variable that has a new allowed value `ALL_O_DIRECT`. It determines the method InnoDB uses to flush its data and log files. (See innodb_flush_method in the MySQL 5.7 [Reference Manual](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_flush_method)).

The following values are allowed:

* `fdatasync`:
use `fsync()` to flush data, log, and parallel doublewrite files.

* `O_SYNC`:
use `O_SYNC` to open and flush the log and parallel doublewrite files; use `fsync()` to flush the data files. Do not use `fsync()` to flush the parallel doublewrite file.

* `O_DIRECT`:
use O_DIRECT to open the data files and `fsync()` system call to flush data, log, and parallel doublewrite files.

* `O_DIRECT_NO_FSYNC`:
use O_DIRECT to open the data files and parallel doublewrite files, but does not use the `fsync()` system call to flush the data files, log files, and parallel doublewrite files. This option isn’t suitable for *XFS* file system.

* `ALL_O_DIRECT`:
use O_DIRECT to open data files, log files, and parallel doublewrite files
and use `fsync()` to flush the data files but not the log files or
parallel doublewrite files. This option is recommended when *InnoDB* log files are big (more than 8GB),
otherwise, there may be performance degradation. **Note**: When using this option on *ext4* filesystem
variable innodb_log_block_size
should be set to 4096 (default log-block-size in *ext4*) in order to avoid the `unaligned AIO/DIO` warnings.

### Status Variables

The following information has been added to `SHOW ENGINE INNODB STATUS` to confirm the checkpoint activity:

```text
The max checkpoint age
The current checkpoint age target
The current age of the oldest page modification which has not been flushed to disk yet.
The current age of the last checkpoint
...
---
LOG
---
Log sequence number 0 1059494372
Log flushed up to   0 1059494372
Last checkpoint at  0 1055251010
Max checkpoint age  162361775
Checkpoint age target 104630090
Modified age        4092465
Checkpoint age      4243362
0 pending log writes, 0 pending chkp writes
...
```

Commit message:

PS-8696 innodb_log_block_zie is replaced by innodb_log_write_ahead_size but doc mentions it (5.7)
  Changes to be committed:
  	modified:   docs/scalability/innodb_io.md

docs/scalability/innodb_io.md, after:

# Improved InnoDB I/O Scalability

Because InnoDB is a complex storage engine it must be configured properly in order to perform at its best. Some points are not configurable in standard InnoDB. The goal of this feature is to provide a more exhaustive set of options for XtraDB.

## Version Specific Information

* Percona Server for MySQL 5.7.10-1: Feature ported from Percona Server for MySQL 5.6

## System Variables

### `innodb_use_global_flush_log_at_trx_commit`

| Option       | Description |
|--------------|-------------|
| Command-line | Yes         |
| Config File  | Yes         |
| Scope        | Global      |
| Dynamic      | Yes         |
| Data type    | Boolean     |
| Default      | True        |
| Range        | True/False  |

This variable enables or disables the effect of the per-session value of
the innodb_flush_log_at_trx_commit variable.

If the global variable  innodb_use_global_flush_log_at_trx_commit is
set to `1`, the session uses the current
global value of innodb_flush_log_at_trx_commit. This is the
upstream-compatible mode. If the user attempts to change the
innodb_flush_log_at_trx_commit value for a
session, the session value is ignored.

If the global variable innodb_use_global_flush_log_at_trx_commit is set to
`0`, a user can modify the
`innodb_flush_log_at_trx_commit` per-session using the following command:

```sql
SET SESSION innodb_flush_log_at_trx_commit=0
```

This modification only affects the transactions in that session. Other sessions,
if they have not been individually modified, continue to use the
global `innodb_use_flush_log_at_trx_commit` value.

```sql
SET innodb_use_global_flush_log_at_trx_commit=1
```

### `innodb_flush_method`

| Option         | Description                                                   |
|----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| Command-line   | Yes                                                           |
| Config File    | Yes                                                           |
| Scope          | Global                                                        |
| Dynamic        | No                                                            |
| Data type      | Enumeration                                                   |
| Default        | fdatasync                                                     |
| Allowed values | fdatasync, O_DSYNC, O_DIRECT, O_DIRECT_NO_FSYNC, ALL_O_DIRECT |

The variable was ported from Percona Server for MySQL 5.6 in Percona Server for MySQL 5.7.10-3. This is an existing MySQL 5.7 system variable that has a new allowed value `ALL_O_DIRECT`. It determines the method InnoDB uses to flush its data and log files. (See innodb_flush_method in the MySQL 5.7 [Reference Manual](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_flush_method)).

The following values are allowed:

* `fdatasync`:
use `fsync()` to flush data, log, and parallel doublewrite files.

* `O_SYNC`:
use `O_SYNC` to open and flush the log and parallel doublewrite files; use `fsync()` to flush the data files. Do not use `fsync()` to flush the parallel doublewrite file.

* `O_DIRECT`:
use O_DIRECT to open the data files and `fsync()` system call to flush data, log, and parallel doublewrite files.

* `O_DIRECT_NO_FSYNC`:
use O_DIRECT to open the data files and parallel doublewrite files, but does not use the `fsync()` system call to flush the data files, log files, and parallel doublewrite files. This option isn’t suitable for *XFS* file system.

* `ALL_O_DIRECT`:
use O_DIRECT to open data files, log files, and parallel doublewrite files
and use `fsync()` to flush the data files but not the log files or
parallel doublewrite files. This option is recommended when *InnoDB* log files are big (more than 8GB),
otherwise, there may be performance degradation. **Note**: On *ext4* filesystem, set `innodb_log_write_ahead_size`. This variable should match the
filesystem's write-ahead block size and avoids the `unaligned AIO/DIO` warnings.

### Status Variables

The following information has been added to `SHOW ENGINE INNODB STATUS` to confirm the checkpoint activity:

```text
The max checkpoint age
The current checkpoint age target
The current age of the oldest page modification which has not been flushed to disk yet.
The current age of the last checkpoint
...
---
LOG
---
Log sequence number 0 1059494372
Log flushed up to   0 1059494372
Last checkpoint at  0 1055251010
Max checkpoint age  162361775
Checkpoint age target 104630090
Modified age        4092465
Checkpoint age      4243362
0 pending log writes, 0 pending chkp writes
...
```
