docs/apt-repo.md, before:

# Use an APT repository to install Percona Server for MySQL {{vers}}

Ready-to-use packages are available from the Percona Server for MySQL software
repositories and the [Percona downloads] page.

Specific information on the supported platforms, products, and versions is described in [Percona Software and Platform Lifecycle](https://www.percona.com/services/policies/percona-software-platform-lifecycle#mysql).

We gather [Telemetry data] in the Percona packages and Docker images.

## Install Percona Server for MySQL using APT

To install Percona Server for MySQL using APT, do the following steps:
{.power-number}

1. Update the package repositories:

	```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
	$ sudo apt update
	```

2. Install the `curl` download utility if needed:

	```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
	$ sudo apt install curl
	```
	
3. Download the `percona-release` repository package:

	```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
	$ curl -O https://repo.percona.com/apt/percona-release_latest.generic_all.deb
	```

4. Install the downloaded package with `apt` as root or with sudo:

	```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
	$ sudo apt install gnupg2 lsb-release ./percona-release_latest.generic_all.deb
	```
    

5. Refresh the local cache to update the package information:

	```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
	$ sudo apt update
	```

6. Use `percona-release` to set up the repository for the Percona Server for MySQL {{vers}} version:

	```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
	$ sudo percona-release enable-only {{pkg}} release
	$ sudo percona-release enable tools release
	```

7. You can check the repository setup for the Percona original release list in `/etc/apt/sources.list.d/percona-original-release.list`. 

8. Install the server package with the `percona-release` command:

	```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
	$ sudo apt install percona-server-server
	```

See [Configuring Percona repositories with `percona-release`](https://docs.percona.com/percona-software-repositories/percona-release.html) for more information.

--8<--- "storage-engines.md"

Percona Server for MySQL contains user-defined functions from [Percona Toolkit](https://docs.percona.com/percona-toolkit/). These user-defined functions provide faster checksums. For more details on the user-defined functions, see [Percona Toolkit UDF functions](udf-percona-toolkit.md).

After the installation completes, run the following commands to create these functions:

```mysql
mysql -e "CREATE FUNCTION fnv1a_64 RETURNS INTEGER SONAME 'libfnv1a_udf.so'"
mysql -e "CREATE FUNCTION fnv_64 RETURNS INTEGER SONAME 'libfnv_udf.so'"
mysql -e "CREATE FUNCTION murmur_hash RETURNS INTEGER SONAME 'libmurmur_udf.so'"
```

## Install the Percona Testing repository using APT

Percona offers pre-release builds from the testing repository. To enable it, run
percona-release with the `testing` argument. Run the following command as root or use the sudo command:

```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ sudo percona-release enable {{pkg}} testing
```

These builds should not be run in production. This build may not contain all of the features available in the final release. The features may change without notice.

[Percona downloads]: https://www.percona.com/downloads/Percona-Server-{{vers}}/

[Telemetry data]: telemetry.md

Commit message:

PS-9367 Update installation commands for 8.4
	modified:   docs/apt-repo.md
	modified:   variables.yml

docs/apt-repo.md, after:

# Use an APT repository to install Percona Server for MySQL {{vers}}

Ready-to-use packages are available from the Percona Server for MySQL software
repositories and the [Percona downloads] page.

Specific information on the supported platforms, products, and versions is described in [Percona Software and Platform Lifecycle](https://www.percona.com/services/policies/percona-software-platform-lifecycle#mysql).

We gather [Telemetry data] in the Percona packages and Docker images.

## ARM support

The DEB builds for Ubuntu 20.04, Ubuntu 22.04, Ubuntu 24.04, DEBIAN 11, and DEBIAN 12 contain ARM packages with the `aarch64.rpm` extension. This means that Percona Server for MySQL is available for users on ARM-based systems.

## Install Percona Server for MySQL using APT

To install Percona Server for MySQL using APT, do the following steps:
{.power-number}

1. Update the package repositories:

	```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
	$ sudo apt update
	```

2. Install the `curl` download utility if needed:

	```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
	$ sudo apt install curl
	```
	
3. Download the `percona-release` repository package:

	```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
	$ curl -O https://repo.percona.com/apt/percona-release_latest.generic_all.deb
	```

4. Install the downloaded package with `apt` as root or with sudo:

	```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
	$ sudo apt install gnupg2 lsb-release ./percona-release_latest.generic_all.deb
	```
    

5. Refresh the local cache to update the package information:

	```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
	$ sudo apt update
	```

6. Use `percona-release` to set up the repository for the Percona Server for MySQL {{vers}} version:

	```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
	$ sudo percona-release enable-only {{pkg}} release
	$ sudo percona-release enable tools release
	```

7. You can check the repository setup for the Percona original release list in `/etc/apt/sources.list.d/percona-original-release.list`. 

8. Install the server package with the `percona-release` command:

	```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
	$ sudo apt install percona-server-server
	```

See [Configuring Percona repositories with `percona-release`](https://docs.percona.com/percona-software-repositories/percona-release.html) for more information.

--8<--- "storage-engines.md"

Percona Server for MySQL contains user-defined functions from [Percona Toolkit](https://docs.percona.com/percona-toolkit/). These user-defined functions, `fnv_64`, `fnv1a_64`, `murmur_hash`, provide faster checksums. For more details on the user-defined functions, see [Percona Toolkit UDF functions](udf-percona-toolkit.md).

After the installation completes, run the following command to create these functions:

```mysql
mysql -e "INSTALL COMPONENT 'file://component_percona_udf'"
```

## Install the Percona Testing repository using APT

Percona offers pre-release builds from the testing repository. To enable it, run
percona-release with the `testing` argument. Run the following command as root or use the sudo command:

```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ sudo percona-release enable {{pkg}} testing
```

These builds should not be run in production. This build may not contain all of the features available in the final release. The features may change without notice.

[Percona downloads]: https://www.percona.com/downloads/Percona-Server-{{vers}}/

[Telemetry data]: telemetry.md
