docs/apt-files.md, before:

# Files in the DEB package built for Percona Server for MySQL 8.0

| Package                      | Contains                                                                                                                                                                        |
|------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| percona-server-server   | The database server itself, the mysqld binary and associated files.                                                                                                             |
| percona-server-common        | The files common to the server and client.                                                                                                                                      |
| percona-server-client        | The command line client.                                                                                                                                                        |
| percona-server-dbg           | Debug symbols for the server.                                                                                                                                                   |
| percona-server-test          | The database test suite.                                                                                                                                                        |
| percona-server-source        | The server source.                                                                                                                                                              |
| libperconaserverclient21-dev | Header files needed to compile software to use the client library.                                                                                                              |
| libperconaserverclient21     | The client-shared library. The version is incremented when there is an ABI change that requires software using the client library to be recompiled or its source code modified. |

Commit message:

PS-9003 Add pro-builds and FIPS documentation (8.0) (#211)
* PS-9003 Add pro-builds documentation
	modified:   docs/compile-percona-server.md
	new file:   docs/fips.md
	new file:   docs/install-pro.md
	modified:   docs/installation.md
	new file:   docs/psmysql-pro.md
	modified:   docs/quickstart-overview.md
	modified:   docs/source-tarball.md
	new file:   docs/upgrade-pro.md
	modified:   mkdocs-base.yml

* Update fips.md

docs/apt-files.md, after:

# Files in the DEB package built for Percona Server for MySQL 8.0

| Package                      | Contains                                                                                                                                                                        |
|------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| percona-server-server   | The database server itself, the mysqld binary and associated files.                                                                                                             |
| percona-server-common        | The files common to the server and client.                                                                                                                                      |
| percona-server-client        | The command line client.                                                                                                                                                        |
| percona-server-dbg           | Debug symbols for the server.                                                                                                                                                   |
| percona-server-test          | The database test suite.                                                                                                                                                        |
| percona-server-source        | The server source.                                                                                                                                                              |
| percona-server-rocksdb       | The files for rocksdb installation.                                                                                                  |
| percona-mysql-router         | The mysql router.                               |
| libperconaserverclient21-dev | Header files needed to compile software to use the client library.                                                                                                              |
| libperconaserverclient21     | The client-shared library. The version is incremented when there is an ABI change that requires software using the client library to be recompiled or its source code modified. |
