docs/index.md, before:

# Percona Server for MySQL 8.0 - Documentation

!!! note ""

    This documentation is for the latest release: Percona Server for MySQL {{release}} ([Release Notes](release-notes/{{release}}.md)).

Percona Server for MySQL is a freely available, fully compatible, enhanced, and open source drop-in replacement for any MySQL database. It provides superior and optimized performance, greater scalability, and availability, enhanced backups, increased visibility and instrumentation.

Percona Server for MySQL is trusted by thousands of enterprises to provide better performance and concurrency for their most demanding workloads.

## For Monitoring and Management 

Percona Monitoring and Management (PMM )monitors and provides actionable performance data for MySQL variants, including Percona Server for MySQL, Percona XtraDB Cluster, Oracle MySQL Community Edition, Oracle MySQL Enterprise Edition, and MariaDB. PMM captures metrics and data for the InnoDB, XtraDB, and MyRocks storage engines, and has specialized dashboards for specific engine details.

[Install PMM and connect your MySQL instances to it](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/get-started/interface.html#open-a-dashboard-with-the-menu).

Commit message:

PS-9089 Enhance 80 Quickstart with APT/YUM install instructions (8.0) (#271)
modified:   docs/docker.md
	modified:   docs/quickstart-docker.md
	modified:   docs/quickstart-overview.md

docs/index.md, after:

# Percona Server for MySQL 8.0 - Documentation

!!! note ""

    This documentation is for the latest release: Percona Server for MySQL {{release}} ([Release Notes](release-notes/{{release}}.md)).

Percona Server for MySQL is a freely available, fully compatible, enhanced, and open source drop-in replacement for any MySQL database. It provides superior and optimized performance, greater scalability, and availability, enhanced backups, increased visibility and instrumentation.

Percona Server for MySQL is trusted by thousands of enterprises to provide better performance and concurrency for their most demanding workloads.

You can use the [Quickstart Guide] to start using Percona Server for MySQL.

## For Monitoring and Management

Percona Monitoring and Management (PMM )monitors and provides actionable performance data for MySQL variants, including Percona Server for MySQL, Percona XtraDB Cluster, Oracle MySQL Community Edition, Oracle MySQL Enterprise Edition, and MariaDB. PMM captures metrics and data for the InnoDB, XtraDB, and MyRocks storage engines, and has specialized dashboards for specific engine details.

[Install PMM and connect your MySQL instances to it](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/get-started/interface.html#open-a-dashboard-with-the-menu)

[Quickstart Guide]: quickstart-overview.md
