docs/installation.md, before:

# Install Percona Server for MySQL

Before installing, review the [Percona Server for MySQL 8.0 Release notes](release-notes/release-notes_index.md) for your version.

We gather [Telemetry data] in the Percona packages and Docker images.

We recommend using the repositories that Percona provides to simplify the installation process. The percona-release tool makes it easy to install and update your software and its dependencies using your operating system package manager.

The Percona Software repositories contain YUM (`RPM` packages for Red Hat Enterprise Linux and derivatives) and APT (`DEB` packages for Ubuntu and Debian) for Percona software such as Percona Server for MySQL, Percona XtraBackup, and Percona Toolkit.

For more information see,  [Percona Software repositories and the percona-release tool].

To get started quickly, use the [Quickstart guide].You can find instructions to either use Docker or install Percona Server for MySQL using your package manager.

The following guides describe the installation procedures for using the official Percona Software repositories for either the `.deb` and `.rpm` packages.

* [Install Percona Server for MySQL on Debian and Ubuntu](apt-repo.md)

* [Install Percona Server for MySQL on Red Hat Enterprise Linux and derivatives](yum-repo.md)

[Telemetry data]: telemetry.md
[Percona Software repositories and the percona-release tool]:percona-release.md
[Quickstart guide]: quickstart-overview.md

Commit message:

PS-9003 Add pro-builds and FIPS documentation (8.0) (#211)
* PS-9003 Add pro-builds documentation
	modified:   docs/compile-percona-server.md
	new file:   docs/fips.md
	new file:   docs/install-pro.md
	modified:   docs/installation.md
	new file:   docs/psmysql-pro.md
	modified:   docs/quickstart-overview.md
	modified:   docs/source-tarball.md
	new file:   docs/upgrade-pro.md
	modified:   mkdocs-base.yml

* Update fips.md

docs/installation.md, after:

# Install Percona Server for MySQL

Before installing, review the [Percona Server for MySQL 8.0 Release notes](release-notes/release-notes_index.md) for your version.

We gather [Telemetry data] in the Percona packages and Docker images.

We recommend using the repositories that Percona provides to simplify the installation process. The percona-release tool makes it easy to install and update your software and its dependencies using your operating system package manager.

The Percona Software repositories contain YUM (`RPM` packages for Red Hat Enterprise Linux and derivatives) and APT (`DEB` packages for Ubuntu and Debian) for Percona software such as Percona Server for MySQL, Percona XtraBackup, and Percona Toolkit.

For more information see,  [Percona Software repositories and the percona-release tool].

To get started quickly, use the [Quickstart guide].You can find instructions to either use Docker or install Percona Server for MySQL using your package manager.

The following guides describe the installation procedures for using the official Percona Software repositories for either the `.deb` and `.rpm` packages.

* [Install Percona Server for MySQL on Debian and Ubuntu](apt-repo.md)

* [Install Percona Server for MySQL on Red Hat Enterprise Linux and derivatives](yum-repo.md)

## Install Percona Server for MySQL Pro

[Install Percona Server for MySQL Pro](install-pro.md){.md-button}

## Upgrade to Percona Server for MySQL Pro

If you already use Percona Server for MySQL, you can [Upgrade to Percona Server for MySQL Pro](upgrade-pro.md)

[Telemetry data]: telemetry.md
[Percona Software repositories and the percona-release tool]:percona-release.md
[Quickstart guide]: quickstart-overview.md
