docs/use-keyring-vault-component.md, before:

# Use the keyring vault component

The `keyring_vault` component extends the server capabilities and provides an interface for the database with a [HashiCorp Vault] server to store key and secure encryption keys. 

--8<--- "keyring-components-installation.md"

The following example is a global manifest file that does not use local manifests:

```json
{
 "read_local_manifest": false,
 "components": "file://component_keyring_vault"
}
```

The following is an example of a global manifest file that points to a local manifest file:

```json
{
 "read_local_manifest": true
}
```

The following is an example of a local manifest file:

```json
{
 "components": "file://component_keyring_vault"
}
```

The configuration settings are either in a global configuration file or a local configuration file.

The `component_keyring_vault.cnf` file contains the following information:

* `read_local_config [optional]` - this option can be used only in the global configuration file. This option indicates whether the component should read configuration information from the local configuration file. The allowed values are `true` or `false`. If you do not use this option, the component uses only the global configuration file.

    If you use the `read_local_config` option in the global configuration file along with other items, the component checks the `read_local_config` item value first:

    `false` - the component processes other items in the global configuration file and ignores the local configuration file.

    `true` - the component ignores other items in the global configuration file and attempts to read the local configuration file.

* `timeout` - the duration in seconds for the Vault server connection timeout. The default value is 15. The allowed range is from 0 to 86400. The timeout can be also disabled to wait an infinite amount of time by setting this variable to 0.

* `vault_url` - the Vault server address.

* `secret_mount_point` - the mount point name where the keyring_vault stores the keys.

* `token` - a token generated by the Vault server.

* `secret_mount_point_version [optional]` - the `KV Secrets Engine version (kv or kv-v2)` used. The allowed values are `AUTO`, `1`, and `2`. The default value is `AUTO`.

* `vault_ca [optional]` - if the machine does not trust the Vault’s CA certificate, this variable points to the CA certificate used to sign the Vault’s certificates.

??? example "Example of a configuration file in JSON format"

     ```json
     {
      "timeout": 15,
      "vault_url": "https://vault.public.com:8202",
      "secret_mount_point": "secret",
      "secret_mount_point_version": "AUTO",
      "token": "58a20c08-8001-fd5f-5192-7498a48eaf20",
      "vault_ca": "/data/keyring_vault_confs/vault_ca.crt"
     }
     ```

!!! warning

    Each `secret_mount_point` must be used by only one server. The behavior is unpredictable if multiple servers use the same `secret_mount_point`.

The first time a key is fetched from a keyring, the `keyring_vault` communicates with the Vault server to retrieve the key type and data.

### secret_mount_point_version information

The `secret_mount_point_version` can be either a `1`, `2`, `AUTO`, or the `secret_mount_point_version` parameter is not listed in the configuration file.

| Value            | Description                                          |       
|----------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | 
| 1                | Works with `KV Secrets Engine - Version 1 (kv)`. When forming key operation URLs, the `secret_mount_point` is always used without any transformations. For example, to return a key named `skey`, the URL is <vault_url>/v1/<secret_mount_point>/skey  |
| 2                | Works with `KV Secrets Engine - Version 2 (kv)` The initialization logic splits the `secret_mount_point` parameter into two parts:<ul><li>The `mount_point_path` - the mount path under which the Vault Server secret was created</li><li>The `directory_path` - a virtual directory suffix that can be used to create virtual namespaces with the same real mount point</li></ul> For example, both the `mount_point_path` and the `directory_path` are needed to form key access URLs: <vault_url>/v1/<mount_point_path/data/<directory_path>/skey |
| AUTO | An autodetection mechanism probes and determines if the secrets engine version is `kv` or `kv-v2` and based on the outcome will either use the `secret_mount_point` as is, or split the `secret_mount_point` into two parts.|
| Not listed| If the `secret_mount_point_version` is not listed in the configuration file, the behavior is the same as `AUTO`.|

If you set the `secret_mount_point_version` to `2` but the path pointed by `secret_mount_point` is based on `KV Secrets Engine - Version 1 (kv)`, an error is reported, and the component fails to initialize.

If you set the `secret_mount_point_version` to `1` but the path pointed by `secret_mount_point` is based on `KV Secrets Engine - Version 2 (kv-v2)`, the component initialization succeeds but any MySQL keyring-related operations fail.

### Upgrade from Vault Secrets Engine Version 1 to Version 2

You can upgrade from the Vault Secrets Engine Version 1 to Version 2.
    
Use either of the following methods:

* Set the `secret_mount_point_version` to `AUTO` or the variable is not set in the `keyring_vault` component configuration files in all Percona Servers. The `AUTO` value ensures the autodetection mechanism is invoked during the component initialization.

* Set the `secret_mount_point_version` to `2` to ensure that components do not initialize unless the `kv` to `kv-v2` upgrade completes.

!!! note

    The `keyring_vault` component that works with `kv-v2` secret engines does not use the built-in key versioning capabilities. The keyring key versions are encoded into key names.

!!! admonition "See also"

    [Hashicorp Documentation: Installing Vault]
        
    [Hashicorp Documentation: Production Hardening]

[Hashicorp Documentation: Installing Vault]: https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/install/index.html
[Hashicorp Documentation: Production Hardening]: https://learn.hashicorp.com/vault/operations/production-hardening
[HashiCorp Vault]: https://www.hashicorp.com/products/vault/data-protection

Commit message:

PS-9072 Update Hashicorp Vault instructions (innovation)
	modified:   docs/use-keyring-vault-component.md

docs/use-keyring-vault-component.md, after:

# Use the keyring vault component

The `keyring_vault` component extends the server capabilities and provides an interface for the database with a [HashiCorp Vault] server to store key and secure encryption keys. 

--8<--- "keyring-components-installation.md"

The following example is a global manifest file that does not use local manifests:

```json
{
 "read_local_manifest": false,
 "components": "file://component_keyring_vault"
}
```

The following is an example of a global manifest file that points to a local manifest file:

```json
{
 "read_local_manifest": true
}
```

The following is an example of a local manifest file:

```json
{
 "components": "file://component_keyring_vault"
}
```

The configuration settings are either in a global configuration file or a local configuration file.

The component communicates with the [Hashicorp Vault server](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/install). Prepare the certificate and key files for a secure HTTPS connection to the server. You must have an organizational Certificate Authority (CA), a private vault key, and certificate for the Hashicorp Vault server instance. 

You can use [OpenSL](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man3.0/index.html) to generate these files or use existing files. The key files contain sensitive information. Store these key files and the password used to create each key in a secure location. 

You can use the Hashicorp Vault to [build your own CA](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/tutorials/secrets-management/pki-engine), if needed, and then create a Hashicorp Vault server certificate.


The `component_keyring_vault.cnf` file contains the following information:

* `read_local_config [optional]` - this option can be used only in the global configuration file. This option indicates whether the component should read configuration information from the local configuration file. The allowed values are `true` or `false`. If you do not use this option, the component uses only the global configuration file.

    If you use the `read_local_config` option in the global configuration file along with other items, the component checks the `read_local_config` item value first:

    `false` - the component processes other items in the global configuration file and ignores the local configuration file.

    `true` - the component ignores other items in the global configuration file and attempts to read the local configuration file.

* `timeout` - the duration in seconds for the Vault server connection timeout. The default value is 15. The allowed range is from 0 to 86400. The timeout can be also disabled to wait an infinite amount of time by setting this variable to 0.

* `vault_url` - the Vault server address.

* `secret_mount_point` - the mount point name where the keyring_vault stores the keys.

* `token` - a token generated by the Vault server.

* `secret_mount_point_version [optional]` - the `KV Secrets Engine version (kv or kv-v2)` used. The allowed values are `AUTO`, `1`, and `2`. The default value is `AUTO`.

* `vault_ca [optional]` - if the machine does not trust the Vault’s CA certificate, this variable points to the CA certificate used to sign the Vault’s certificates.

??? example "Example of a configuration file in JSON format"

     ```json
     {
      "timeout": 15,
      "vault_url": "https://vault.public.com:8202",
      "secret_mount_point": "secret",
      "secret_mount_point_version": "AUTO",
      "token": "58a20c08-8001-fd5f-5192-7498a48eaf20",
      "vault_ca": "/data/keyring_vault_confs/vault_ca.crt"
     }
     ```

!!! warning

    Each `secret_mount_point` must be used by only one server. The behavior is unpredictable if multiple servers use the same `secret_mount_point`.

The first time a key is fetched from a keyring, the `keyring_vault` communicates with the Vault server to retrieve the key type and data.

### secret_mount_point_version information

The `secret_mount_point_version` can be either a `1`, `2`, `AUTO`, or the `secret_mount_point_version` parameter is not listed in the configuration file.

| Value            | Description                                          |       
|----------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | 
| 1                | Works with `KV Secrets Engine - Version 1 (kv)`. When forming key operation URLs, the `secret_mount_point` is always used without any transformations. For example, to return a key named `skey`, the URL is <vault_url>/v1/<secret_mount_point>/skey  |
| 2                | Works with `KV Secrets Engine - Version 2 (kv)` The initialization logic splits the `secret_mount_point` parameter into two parts:<ul><li>The `mount_point_path` - the mount path under which the Vault Server secret was created</li><li>The `directory_path` - a virtual directory suffix that can be used to create virtual namespaces with the same real mount point</li></ul> For example, both the `mount_point_path` and the `directory_path` are needed to form key access URLs: <vault_url>/v1/<mount_point_path/data/<directory_path>/skey |
| AUTO | An autodetection mechanism probes and determines if the secrets engine version is `kv` or `kv-v2` and based on the outcome will either use the `secret_mount_point` as is, or split the `secret_mount_point` into two parts.|
| Not listed| If the `secret_mount_point_version` is not listed in the configuration file, the behavior is the same as `AUTO`.|

If you set the `secret_mount_point_version` to `2` but the path pointed by `secret_mount_point` is based on `KV Secrets Engine - Version 1 (kv)`, an error is reported, and the component fails to initialize.

If you set the `secret_mount_point_version` to `1` but the path pointed by `secret_mount_point` is based on `KV Secrets Engine - Version 2 (kv-v2)`, the component initialization succeeds but any MySQL keyring-related operations fail.

### Upgrade from Vault Secrets Engine Version 1 to Version 2

You can upgrade from the Vault Secrets Engine Version 1 to Version 2.
    
Use either of the following methods:

* Set the `secret_mount_point_version` to `AUTO` or the variable is not set in the `keyring_vault` component configuration files in all Percona Servers. The `AUTO` value ensures the autodetection mechanism is invoked during the component initialization.

* Set the `secret_mount_point_version` to `2` to ensure that components do not initialize unless the `kv` to `kv-v2` upgrade completes.

!!! note

    The `keyring_vault` component that works with `kv-v2` secret engines does not use the built-in key versioning capabilities. The keyring key versions are encoded into key names.

!!! admonition "See also"

    [Hashicorp Documentation: Installing Vault]
        
    [Hashicorp Documentation: Production Hardening]

[Hashicorp Documentation: Installing Vault]: https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/install/index.html
[Hashicorp Documentation: Production Hardening]: https://learn.hashicorp.com/vault/operations/production-hardening
[HashiCorp Vault]: https://www.hashicorp.com/products/vault/data-protection
