docs/yum-download-rpm.md, before:

# Install Percona Server for MySQL using downloaded RPM packages

Download the packages from [Percona Product Downloads](https://www.percona.com/downloads). If needed, [Instructions for the Percona Product Download](download-instructions.md) are available.

 The following example downloads *Percona Server for MySQL* 8.0.29-21 release packages for *RHEL* 8.

1. Use `wget` to download the tar file.

	```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
	$ wget https://downloads.percona.com/downloads/Percona-Server-LATEST/Percona-Server-8.0.29-21/binary/redhat/8/x86_64/Percona-Server-8.0.29-21-rc59f87d2854-el8-x86_64-bundle.tar
	```

2. Unpack the bundle to get the packages: `tar xvf Percona-Server-8.0.29-21-rc59f87d2854-el8-x86_64-bundle.tar`

3. To view a list of packages, run the following command:

	```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
	$ ls *.rpm
	```
	The output should look like the following:
	
    ??? example "Expected output"

        ```text
        percona-icu-data-files-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-mysql-router-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-mysql-router-debuginfo-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-client-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-client-debuginfo-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-debuginfo-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-debugsource-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-devel-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-rocksdb-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-rocksdb-debuginfo-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-server-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-server-debuginfo-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-shared-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-shared-compat-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-shared-debuginfo-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-test-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-test-debuginfo-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        ```
	

4. Install `jemalloc` with the following command, if needed:
	
	```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
	$ wget https://repo.percona.com/yum/release/8/RPMS/x86_64/jemalloc-3.6.0-1.el8.x86_64.rpm
	```

5. An EL8-based *RHEL* distribution or derivatives package installation requires the mysql module to be disabled before installing the packages:

	```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
	$ sudo yum module disable mysql
	```

6. Install all the packages (for debugging, testing, etc.) with the following command:

	```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
	$ sudo rpm -ivh *.rpm
	```

	!!! note
	
	    When installing packages manually, you must make sure to resolve all dependencies and install any missing packages yourself.

Commit message:

PS-9161 Update APT and YUM topics with more explanation - 8.0
 On branch ps-9161-8
	modified:   docs/apt-download-deb.md

docs/yum-download-rpm.md, after:

# Install Percona Server for MySQL using downloaded RPM packages

You should be aware that when you install packages manually, you must resolve and install any dependencies. This process may involve finding and installing the necessary dependencies before installing the packages. Dependencies are other packages that a package may need to function correctly. For example, a package may rely on a specific library. If that library is not installed, or if the installed library is the wrong version, the package may not work correctly.

Package managers, like `APT` or `YUM` install the dependencies for you.

Download the packages from [Percona Product Downloads](https://www.percona.com/downloads). If needed, [Instructions for the Percona Product Download](download-instructions.md) are available.

 The following example downloads *Percona Server for MySQL* 8.0.29-21 release packages for *RHEL* 8.

1. Using [`Wget`](https://www.gnu.org/software/wget/), the following command downloads a specific version of Percona Server for MySQL on Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8 from the Percona website. 

	```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
	$ wget https://downloads.percona.com/downloads/Percona-Server-LATEST/Percona-Server-8.0.29-21/binary/redhat/8/x86_64/Percona-Server-8.0.29-21-rc59f87d2854-el8-x86_64-bundle.tar
	```

2. The following command extracts the contents of Percona Server for MySQL tarball. The `tar` command uses these options for the extraction:

    * `x` - extract

    * `v` - a verbose description of the `tar` extraction

    * `f` - name of the archive file

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
    $ tar xvf Percona-Server-8.0.29-21-rc59f87d2854-el8-x86_64-bundle.tar
    ```

3. The following command uses the `ls` utility to list the RPM files in the current directory. The command uses the `*.rpm` pattern. The `*` is a wildcard that matches any number of characters. The `.rpm` specifies that we only want the files that end in this extension.

	```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
	$ ls *.rpm
	```
	The output should look like the following:
	
    ??? example "Expected output"

        ```text
        percona-icu-data-files-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-mysql-router-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-mysql-router-debuginfo-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-client-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-client-debuginfo-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-debuginfo-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-debugsource-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-devel-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-rocksdb-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-rocksdb-debuginfo-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-server-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-server-debuginfo-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-shared-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-shared-compat-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-shared-debuginfo-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-test-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        percona-server-test-debuginfo-8.0.29-21.1.el8.x86_64.rpm
        ```
	

4. [Optional] Install `jemalloc`. The following command downloads a specific version of `jemalloc` for RHEL 8 from the Percona repository.
	
	```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
	$ wget https://repo.percona.com/yum/release/8/RPMS/x86_64/jemalloc-3.6.0-1.el8.x86_64.rpm
	```

5. An EL8-based RHEL distribution or derivatives package installation requires you to disable the `mysql` module. We are installing a different version than the one provided by the module, so we must disable the module before installation. 

	```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
	$ sudo yum module disable mysql
	```

6. The following command uses superuser privileges to install RPM packages in the current directory using the `rpm` command. The `rpm` command uses the following options:

    * `i` - install

    * `v` - verbose, describe the process in detail

    * `h` - display hash marks (`#`) to display installation progress

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
    $ sudo rpm -ivh *.rpm
    ```
