docs/yum-files.md, before:

# Files in the RPM package built for Percona Server for MySQL 8.0

Each of the Percona Server for MySQL RPM packages has a particular purpose.

|Package                 | Contains                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| percona-server-server        | Server itself (the mysqld binary)                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| percona-server-debuginfo     | Debug symbols for the server                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| percona-server-client        | Command line client                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| percona-server-devel         | Header files needed to compile software using the client library.                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| percona-server-shared        | Client shared library.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| percona-server-shared-compat | Shared libraries for software compiled against older versions of the client library. The following libraries are included in this package: libmysqlclient.so.12, libmysqlclient.so.14, libmysqlclient.so.15, libmysqlclient.so.16, and libmysqlclient.so.18. <br/> <br/> This package is not included in downloads for Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9 and derivatives. |
| percona-server-test          | Includes the test suite for Percona Server for MySQL.                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

Commit message:

PS-9003 Add pro-builds and FIPS documentation (8.0) (#211)
* PS-9003 Add pro-builds documentation
	modified:   docs/compile-percona-server.md
	new file:   docs/fips.md
	new file:   docs/install-pro.md
	modified:   docs/installation.md
	new file:   docs/psmysql-pro.md
	modified:   docs/quickstart-overview.md
	modified:   docs/source-tarball.md
	new file:   docs/upgrade-pro.md
	modified:   mkdocs-base.yml

* Update fips.md

docs/yum-files.md, after:

# Files in the RPM package built for Percona Server for MySQL 8.0

Each of the Percona Server for MySQL RPM packages has a particular purpose.

|Package                 | Contains                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| percona-server-server        | Server itself (the mysqld binary)                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| percona-server-debuginfo     | Debug symbols for the server                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| percona-server-client        | Command line client                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| percona-server-devel         | Header files needed to compile software using the client library.                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| percona-server-shared        | Client shared library.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| percona-server-rocksdb       | The files for rocksdb installation.                                                                                                  |
| percona-mysql-router         | The mysql router.                         |
| percona-server-shared-compat | Shared libraries for software compiled against older versions of the client library. The following libraries are included in this package: libmysqlclient.so.12, libmysqlclient.so.14, libmysqlclient.so.15, libmysqlclient.so.16, and libmysqlclient.so.18. <br/> <br/> This package is not included in downloads for Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9 and derivatives. |
| percona-server-test          | Includes the test suite for Percona Server for MySQL.                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
